---
categories:
  - misc
  - ' talks'
tags: []
comment: 
info: 
date: '2016-3-22'
type: post
layout: post
published: true
sha: 
slug: mapr-talk-march-22-2016
title: 'MapR Talk'

---
#Mapr Talk
March 22, 2016 - Tedd D

cooccurence vs matrix factorization

1. result dithering
2. anti-flood

explotation, diversity, speed - not the last fraction of a percent. 
exploratoion meaning the recommendation results today are the traning data for tomorrow. So if you make the results worse today but the training data better tomorrow - you get a better overall result. 

Dithering used to reorder recommendation results - reordering is done randomly.
Dithering is guaranteed to make offline-performance worse.
Dithering also has a near perfect record of making actual performance much better.
Hours to implement - non intuitive/academic - very pragmatic.

log of rank + gaussian noise and reorder. Pick noise scale to provide desired level of mixing.

Exploring the second page - no click through rates after around ~20th (boundary of first page). rank because of order of presentation.

floor(t/T) as a seed - stable for a time period.  - feeling of novelty.

**Lesson 1**  Exploration is good

Bayesian bandits - based on thompson sampling. Very general sequential test. near optimal regret trade-off exploration and exploitation

POssibly best known solution for exploration/exploitation - incredibly Simple

Thompson Sampling: Select each shell according to probability that it is the best. Instead of estimating from probability distrbution - let's just sample instead of estimate. Picks alternatives with the probabilities we want. 

COnverges faster than epsilon-greedy. (with Gamma-Normal prior). His graph showed outperformance by ~ 4x.  Refer to An Empirical Evaluation of Thompson Sampling (Chapelle and Li 2011). - asymptotically optimal - around 10 lines of code.



