---
categories:
  - 'Reading Papers'
comment: 
date: '2016-1-14'
info: 
layout: post
published: true
sha: 06f06665e74ec85246b394971bb8d8466d658731
slug: the-post-8999
tags: []
title: 'Mobile Health Readings'
type: post

---
Focused on Mobile / IoT Tech in Healthcare

* TOC
{:toc}

## PWC's The Wearable Future
PWC: located [here](http://www.pwc.com/us/en/technology/publications/wearable-technology.html)

Report structured as sort of a survey over wearable tech hence everything here is "low level".

*Section 1: Executive Summary Section:*
- Enterprise has a "huge opportunity"
- Wearables can increase loyalty & productivity and has many applications in enterprise
- Wearables need to be "anchored in human centered design"
- Need to be part of an ecosystem to provide value
- Can change advertising and of course healthcare and generally media presentation
- Can be used in workforce training & productivity
- Wearable tech needs to be prescriptive to be useful
- Privacy/Security & Price point are main concerns
- *There is vast opportunity* : their examples are stress reduction, strengthened family connections, improving personal accountability, improved customer service

*Section 2: Wearable Worlds (Dystopia or Utopia)*:
Provides two alternate stories

*Section 3: Wearables at a crossroad*:
- Wearable tech products have currently underdelivered - they believe the Apple Watch should be better.
- Better adoption than a tablet
- Wearables attached to phone rather than independent. 

*Section 4: Research Methodology*:
- Worked with BAV Consulting (leader in brands/customer research)
- (Define) Wearable Tech = "Clothing and accessories incorporating computer and advanced electronic technologies"
- They talked to Panelists, brainstormed and samples 1k consumers of Census National Representation

*Section 5: Snapshot of the Wearable Future *:
- Statistics and usecases, pretty pictures are nice

*Section 6: Where wearable tech stands today *:
Gives some gender-specific results/example wearables

*Section 7: The Business of Wearables*:
- Can be used to differentiate brands. 
    - Virgin Airlines using Google Glass for alerting staff of important customers
    - Provide context relevant content while considering a product. 
    - People are more excited for wearables from tech brands.
- Uses in retail and entertainment are popular

*Section 8: Consumers and Wearables*:
- *Ambivalence rules wearables right now*
- Current Mood: We have data... but what do we do with it?
- Wearables can either be primary or secondary devices - is it independent of a smartphone?
- The real opportunity is "addressing unmet needs"
     - Secondary possiblity: Directing goal-directed behavior, and info overload filtering
- Privacy iss till a concern
- Hitachi has made a communication habit & energy level detecting employee badge!

*Section 9: What's next?*
Recaps the need to embrace tech as a business.


Questions/Points:
- The Wearable Utopia/Dystopia was a great juxtaposition. 
- "Super data" > Big data. this terminology is funny
- Pg 11 says B2B market will be revolutionized ... but how 
- Why the Apple bias?
- What do they mean by Census National representation (pg 14).: As in a statistically Representative group?
- *Ambivalence rules wearables right now*
- Current Mood: We have data... but what do we do with it?

## Perspectives on pervasive health from some of the field's leading researchers
Dey et al (2011)

*Question Being Answered*:  What is pervasive health and what's happening in it?

*One sentence answer*:  Collated opinions  - no summary

*"Low Level" Notes*:  

**What is Pervasive Health?**
- Application of pervasive computing tech for healthcare/health
- Making healthcare available everywhere/everytime
- Using ubicomp tech to increase medical knowledge / contribute to healthcare delivery
- Convergence of personal devices, sensing, embedded computing to advance healthcare quality

**Example Projects:**
- Mining reality to collect "honest" signals
- Social signals can assess behavior diseases (e.g. obesity)
- Continuous sedentary activity type detection
- Mobile phone weight lost intervention tool using JIT feedback and persuasive theories
- FitBaby, connecting parents with clinicians and documentation of daily premature-infant living
- Detection of pressure ulcers

They conclude that the area is is a burgeoning research area and they "expect ... [smartphones] .. will be a dominant research and consumer platform for pervasive health" and mention some challenges, e.g. low power, sophisticated sensing, balancing privacy concerns, and treating "in clinically valid ways".

*Questions I have*:   


*Particularly Interesting Phrases/Points*:   

## Can Mobile Health Tech Transform Health Care?

Steinhubl et al (2013) [[PubMed]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24158428)

*Question Being Answered*:  Can Mobile Health Tech Transform Healthcare?

*One sentence answer*: The potential exists but there are obstacles  


*"Low Level" Notes*:  
- 3 powerful drivers:
    1. Unsustainability of current healthcare spending
    2. Rapid growth of wireless connectivity (>3.2b mobile users)
    3. Need for personalized medicine
- Obstacles:
    1. Current health care system complexities & reimbursement incentives
    2. Low quality apps (potentially harmful)
- Possible Use cases now:
    - *self* - Diagnosing acute symptoms (34% of visits are b/c of acute symptoms. e.g. Viral respiratory tract infections)
    - Recording biometric info
    - Better control chronic issues ( > 50% of US has >= 1 chronic condition - 90% of spending) 
        - Hypertension (1/3 adults, 40m office visits, $93b costs): possible improvements: Home monitoring & Blood Pressure Cuffs. 

All of these can reduce # of doctor visits. Move general doctor time to patients that need it rather than general algorithmic visits. 

*Questions I have*:   
- Self diagnosing is generally a contentious point!
- Otitis Media? : Middle ear inflammatory disease family

*Particularly Interesting Phrases/Points*:  